#Solutions to Euler Projects in Ruby
#(http://projecteuler.net/)

# problem 1
# If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23.
# Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.

# problem 2
# Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:
# 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...
# By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.


# problem 4
# A palindromic number reads the same both ways. The largest palindrome made from the product of two 2-digit numbers is 9009 = 91 × 99.
# Find the largest palindrome made from the product of two 3-digit numbers.
# since we want to find out the largest palidrome number using 2 3-digit numbers
# we would like to start from the largest 3-digit numbers 999 for optimization


# problem 5
# 2520 is the smallest number that can be divided by each of the numbers from 1 to 10 without any remainder.
# What is the smallest positive number that is evenly divisible by all of the numbers from 1 to 20?
# if n can be divid by x evenly then all the factors of x can divid n evenly
# [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20]
# find the largest common factors


# problem 6
# The sum of the squares of the first ten natural numbers is,
# 1^2 + 2^2 + ... + 10^2 = 385
# The square of the sum of the first ten natural numbers is,
# (1 + 2 + ... + 10)2 = 552 = 3025
# Hence the difference between the sum of the squares of the first ten natural numbers and the square of the sum is 3025 − 385 = 2640.
# Find the difference between the sum of the squares of the first one hundred natural numbers and the square of the sum.


# problem 7
# By listing the first six prime numbers: 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and 13, we can see that the 6th prime is 13.
# What is the 10 001st prime number?
# 2 is the only even and prime number
# what is the faster way other than start from 1 and check if it's prime one at a time


# problem 8
# Find the greatest product of five consecutive digits in the 1000-digit number.
# optimization can be done by skipping substring that contains 0


# problem 9
# A Pythagorean triplet is a set of three natural numbers, a < b < c, for which,
# a2 + b2 = c2
# For example, 32 + 42 = 9 + 16 = 25 = 52.
# There exists exactly one Pythagorean triplet for which a + b + c = 1000.
# Find the product abc.
# since a < b and a^2 + b^2 = c^2
# a + b + c = 1000
# a cannot be greater than 1000/3
# b cannot be greater than 1000/2


# problem 10
# The sum of the primes below 10 is 2 + 3 + 5 + 7 = 17.
# Find the sum of all the primes below two million.
